---
Title: SWS101 CTF 5
categories: [SWS101, CTF journal]
tags: [SWS101]
---
## Topic : Lesson Learned

## Overview
In this task, we explore the concepts of incident response (IR) and the impact of SQL injection attacks.
In this practical challenge, we are tasked with exploiting a SQL injection vulnerability on a login page to retrieve a hidden flag. This exercise demonstrates the risks associated with SQL injection and the importance of proper input validation.

### Steps to Solve the Task

### 1. Deploy the Machine
- Start the vulnerable machine by clicking the “deploy” button on the TryHackMe platform.

### 2. Navigate to the Login Page
- Access the login page at `http://MACHINE_IP/`.

### 3. Attempt SQL Injection
- Use Burp Suite to send the login request to Burp Intruder and try various SQL injection payloads.

### 4. Analyze the Response
- After attempting SQL injection, you may receive a message indicating that the flag has been deleted. This highlights the danger of using broad SQL injections like `OR 1=1`, which can affect all rows in a database table.

### 5. Use a Targeted SQL Injection
- To retrieve only a single row, use the following SQL injection payload with a random password:

### 6. Retrieve the Flag
Submit the login form with the targeted SQL injection which will bypass the login and display the flag.

### The flag is: THM{a*****************************e}.

### Summary
In this task, we explored the consequences of SQL injection attacks on a web application. This exercise underscores the importance of input validation and security measures to protect against SQL injection vulnerabilities.